.. ****************************************************************************
.. CUI
..
.. The Advanced Framework for Simulation, Integration, and Modeling (AFSIM)
..
.. The use, dissemination or disclosure of data in this file is subject to
.. limitation or restriction. See accompanying README and LICENSE for details.
.. ****************************************************************************

WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR
--------------------

.. model:: sensor WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR
   
.. parsed-literal::

   sensor <name> :model:`WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR`
      ... :ref:`Platform_Part_Commands` ...
      ... Common :command:`sensor` Commands ... (See Note in Commands_ )

      operating_mode_ ...
      sensor_ ...
      filter_ ... end_filter
      track_quality_ ...
   end_sensor
   
Overview
========

:model:`WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR` provides the means to create a sensor that is a 'composite' of one or more 'constituent'
sensors.

Within WSF it is sometimes difficult to model a complex sensor with a single sensor definition. For example, real
systems that contain multiple apertures are often modeled
in WSF using multiple sensors. This creates the following problems:
* Each of the sensors reports its tracks independently.
* Conducting tracking across the sensors is difficult.
The motivation behind :model:`WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR` is to address these issues. The net result is that for a given target,
the potentially multiple reports will be merged into a single track.

The composite sensor can operate in one of two operating_mode_ :  independent or synchronous. These
are described individually in the following sections.

Independent Operating Mode
==========================

When the operating_mode_ is **independent**, the constituent sensors act totally independently. That is, each of
the constituent sensors must be turned on or off, cued or requested to track through its respective interface(s), not
through the composite sensor. Note, however, the composite sensor must be 'on' for it to be effective. It must be 'on'
to receive the track reports from the constituents. This mode is generally used when the frame rates of the
constituents are not the same, the modes are not the same, or the user desires more control over the constituents.

While operating, each of the constituent sensors send its track reports to the composite sensor where the track reports
are 'merged' into a single stream of reports for reporting. The composite track report is formed using the track
reports generated by the constituent sensors. The composite sensor will report a track when it receives an 'acceptable'
track report from one of its constituents. A track report is acceptable if it is of equal or greater track quality (as
defined by the producing sensors :command:`track_quality <sensor_mode.track_quality>` attribute) than any other constituent sensor that is
actively detecting the object. Note that a sensor that is 'coasting' (failed its last detection chance but still hasn't
dropped the track) is not considered as actively detecting the object. The composite track may also be 'filtered' (see
filter_ below) to produce a smoother estimate of the target's position and velocity, as well as producing a
covariance. Note that if a filter is employed then measurement errors much be defined on each of the constituent
sensors.

The composite sensor will send a 'track drop' message for a target when either of the following is true:
* A 'track drop' message is received from all constituent sensors that were reporting on the target.
* All of the constituent sensors that were reporting on the target are turned off.

Synchronous Operating Mode
==========================

When the operating_mode_ is **synchronous**, the constituent sensors are completely controlled by the composite
sensor. That is, all requests to turn on or off, cue or track must be directed to the composite sensor and not the
constituent sensors. In addition, any passive sensor controlled via a composite sensor in synchronous mode will not be 
notified immediately of any intermittent signal changes, such as a frequency or mode selection, in an interacting transmitter (e.g. a comm,
sensor, or interferer), as it would as a stand-alone sensor or as part of composite sensor operating in independent mode. To mitigate
this effect, the :command:`sensor_mode.frame_time` of the passive sensor can be decreased to allow detections to be reported 
more frequently.

This operating mode provides the most cohesive view, but there are several conditions that must be observed to use this
mode:

* The constituent sensors must appear after the composite sensor on the platform.
* All of the constituent sensors must have the same collection of modes. They must have the same names and must appear
  in the same order within their respective definitions. Note, however, that attributes of the modes may be different.
* The mode-specific scheduling and tracking parameters for the composite sensor are copied from the first constituent
  sensor (i.e., the first sensor mentioned in the sensor_ commands). For example:

   * :command:`sensor_mode.frame_time`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.maximum_request_count`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.revisit_time`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.dwell_time`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.search_while_track`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.disables_search`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.hits_to_establish_track`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.hits_to_maintain_track`
   * :command:`reports_ \<x\> commands <sensor_mode.reports_range>`
   * :command:`sensor_mode.track_quality`
   * filter_

* The commands to ignore detection chances for certain types of objects (i.e., :command:`sensor.ignore`,
  :command:`sensor.ignore_domain`, :command:`sensor.ignore_side`, :command:`sensor.ignore_same_side`) must be specified in the composite
  sensor.

.. block:: WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR

Commands
========

.. note::

   Even though this sensor is documented as accepting common sensor commands, they will be ignored and
   should not be specified for future compatibility. The attributes of the composite sensor are derived from its
   constituent sensors.

.. command:: operating_mode independent
   
   Defines how the constituent sensors are managed.
   
   **independent**
      The constituent sensors operate independently.
   
   **synchronous**
      The constituent sensors operate synchronously with the composite sensor.
   
   Default: None - this must be provided.

.. command:: sensor <sensor-name>
   
   Defines the name of a constituent sensor. This command must be repeated one or more times specifying the names of the
   'constituent' sensors that make up the 'composite' sensor. In general, all of the constituent sensors should be of the
   same general type. At the current time the sensors should be a type that reports tracks (WSF_RADAR_SENSOR,
   WSF_IRST_SENSOR, WSF_PASSIVE_SENSOR).
   
   .. note::
   
      The sensor definitions of the composite sensor should not include 'internal_link' commands. The
      constituent sensors will be automatically linked to the composite sensor as required.

.. command:: filter <filter-type> ... end_filter
   
   Defines a filter to be applied to the stream of tracks for a target when the operating_mode_ is **independent**.
   
   Default: none

   .. note::
   
      If a filter is employed then measurement errors must be defined on each of the constituent sensors.
   
   .. note::
   
      This command must appear **after** the operating_mode_ command.

.. command:: track_quality [ 0 .. 1 ]
   
   Specifies the track quality to be assigned to the composite tracks produced by this sensor when the
   operating_mode_ is **independent**. This value is used only if it is greater than zero. If the value is zero then
   the track quality for the constituent tracks will be used.
   
   Default: 0.0 (Use the track quality from the constituent tracks.)

Example
=======

::

   sensor SENSOR-TYPE-1 ...
      ...
   end_sensor

   sensor SENSOR-TYPE-2 ...
      ...
   end_sensor

   platform_type ...
      processor track_proc WSF_TRACK_PROCESSOR
      end_processor

      sensor composite WSF_COMPOSITE_SENSOR
         operating_mode independent
         sensor         sensor-1
         sensor         sensor-2
         internal_link  track_proc
         on
      end_sensor

      sensor sensor-1 SENSOR-TYPE-1
         on
      end_sensor

      sensor sensor-2 SENSOR-TYPE-2
         on
      end_sensor

   end_platform_type
